Document `AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS` (#497)
directus/docs: content/configuration/auth-sso.md

Directus offers a variety of authentication methods, including local email/password, OAuth 2.0, OpenID, LDAP, and SAML.

> | Variable                   | Description                                                                              | Default Value |

Reviewer: Does the formatting of this table need to be adjusted? I believe the columns should be aligned

| -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `AUTH_PROVIDERS`           | A comma-separated list of auth providers. You can use any names you like for these keys. |               |
| `AUTH_DISABLE_DEFAULT`     | Disable the default auth provider.                                                       | `false`       |

> | `AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS` | A comma-separated list of allowed API public URLs for SSO callback generation in multi-domain deployments. |               |

Reviewer: What do we think of 
```suggestion
| `AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS` | A comma-separated list of allowed API PUBLIC_URLs used to generate `OAuth 2.0` / `OpenID` SSO callback URLs. This is useful for multi-domain deployments. |               |
```

Author: You’re right, PUBLIC_URLs are better. 
We’re already on the API side, but sometimes people might think PUBLIC_URLs are for the app side. It’s not always a bad thing to remind them

Reviewer: Although it is explicitly documented as being the domain where the API is accessible, fair point. Updated 👍

Based on your configured drivers, you must also provide additional variables, where `<PROVIDER>` is the capitalized name of the item in the `AUTH_PROVIDERS` value.

::callout{icon="material-symbols:warning-rounded" color="warning"}
**PUBLIC_URL and AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS**

> Our `oauth2`, `openid` and `saml` SSO drivers rely on `PUBLIC_URL` for redirection, with `oauth2` and `openid` using it for the callback URL generation. If set incorrectly, the login process for these drivers may behave unexpectedly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our `oauth2`, `openid` and `saml` SSO drivers rely on `PUBLIC_URL` for redirection, with `oauth2` and `openid` also using it for the callback URL generation. If set incorrectly, the login process for these drivers may behave unexpectedly.
```

> Our `oauth2`, `openid` and `saml` SSO drivers rely on `PUBLIC_URL` for redirection, with `oauth2` and `openid` using it for the callback URL generation. If set incorrectly, the login process for these drivers may behave unexpectedly.

Reviewer: Additionally seems no space prefixes the first paragraph
<img width="784" height="538" alt="Screenshot 2026-01-08 at 12 31 09 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ef508d06-8f8a-4e7c-817a-93214fbcd84d" />

> For **multi-domain** deployments where your API is accessible from multiple domains, configure `AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS`. When a request's origin matches an entry, that URL will be used for the SSO callback (`oauth2`, `openid`, `saml`) instead of `PUBLIC_URL`.

Reviewer: - From what I could tell `ldap` does not apply here.
- Clarified on where these configurations are used
```suggestion
**PUBLIC_URL and AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS**

Our `oauth2`, `openid` and `saml` SSO drivers rely on `PUBLIC_URL` for redirection, with `oauth2` and `openid` relying on it for part of the authentication flow. If set incorrectly, the login process for these drivers may behave unexpectedly.

In environments where the API is accessible from multiple domains `AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS` should be configured for the domains you wish to support SSO sign-in. When a request's origin matches an entry, the corresponding PUBLIC_URL is used for the login flow. If no match is found the default `PUBLIC_URL` is used instead.
```

Author: I like your version! It's clearer about which drivers use what.
I think it's valuable to keep the term "callback" explicit since it's the standard OAuth/OIDC terminology developers look for no?

What do you think with this version ? 

```md
Our `oauth2`, `openid` and `saml` SSO drivers rely on `PUBLIC_URL` for the provider callback URL (`redirect_uri`), with `oauth2` and `openid` relying on it for part of the authentication flow. If set incorrectly, the login process for these drivers may behave unexpectedly.

In environments where the API is accessible from multiple domains, `AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS` should be configured for the domains you wish to support SSO sign-in. When a request's origin matches an entry, that URL is used for generating the provider callback URL. If no match is found, the default `PUBLIC_URL` is used instead.
```

Reviewer: I think that is fine but I would prefer we keep `...the corresponding PUBLIC_URL is used ...`. IMO its clearer what URL we are referring to.

**Example:**

```
PUBLIC_URL="https://<your_primary_domain>"

> AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS="https://<your_primary_domain>,https://<your_secondary_domain>"

Reviewer: Removed the primary domain from AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS since it is unnecessary and could cause confusion.
```suggestion
PUBLIC_URL="https://<your_primary_domain>"
AUTH_ALLOWED_PUBLIC_URLS="https://<your_secondary_domain>,https://<your_tertiary_domain>"
```

```

**Session Cookie Limitation:**

- **Subdomains on the same domain** (e.g., `api.example.com` and `admin.example.com`): Set `SESSION_COOKIE_DOMAIN=.example.com` to share sessions across subdomains.

> - **Different domains** (e.g., `example.com` and `example.org`): Leave `SESSION_COOKIE_DOMAIN` unset. Due to browser security restrictions, cookies cannot be shared across different domains. Each domain will maintain its own separate session.

Reviewer: - Clarified what sessions shared vs separate would result in
- Removed mention of session_cookie_domain as cookie domain can be set for session or cookie authentication
```suggestion
**Cookie Limitations**

- Subdomains of the same parent domain: Since they share a common parent domain (e.g. `api.example.com` and `admin.example.com`), the cookie domain should be set to the parent domain prefixed by `.` (e.g `.example.com`) so the session will be shared across both subdomains. Loggins in on one subdomain will result in a session valid for all subdomains.
- Different domains: Because they are separate domains (e.g. `example.com` and `example.org`), the cookie domain should be left unset. Due to browser security restrictions, cookies cannot be shared across different domains. Each domain will maintain its own independent session, logging in on one domain will not result in a valid session on the other.
```
